.TH MANYPLUG 1 "2026-04-20" "v0.1.0" "ManyPlug Manual"
.SH NAME
manyplug \- CLI plugin manager for ManyBot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B manyplug
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B manyplug
is a command-line plugin manager designed specifically for ManyBot, a WhatsApp bot framework.
It provides a complete plugin management system for creating, installing, enabling, disabling,
removing, and validating plugins.
.PP
Plugins can be installed from remote registries (via git) or from local paths.
Each plugin follows a standardized structure with metadata defined in
.BR manyplug.json .
.SH COMMANDS
.SS "init [name]"
Create a new plugin boilerplate with the proper directory structure.
.PP
Options:
.RS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-category " <cat>"
Plugin category: games, media, utility, service, admin, or fun (default: utility)
.TP
.B \-\-service
Mark the plugin as a service plugin (runs in background)
.RE
.SS "install [plugins...]"
Install one or more plugins from the registry or a local path.
.PP
Options:
.RS
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-local " <path>"
Install from a local directory instead of the registry (single plugin only)
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip confirmation prompts
.TP
.B \-\-needed
Skip reinstalling plugins that are already up-to-date (pacman-style)
.RE
.SS "remove [plugins...]"
Remove installed plugins. Aliased as
.BR rm .
.PP
Options:
.RS
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip confirmation prompts
.TP
.B \-\-remove\-deps
Also remove npm dependencies installed for the plugin
.RE
.SS "list"
List all installed plugins (enabled only by default). Aliased as
.BR ls .
.PP
Options:
.RS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Include disabled plugins in the listing
.RE
.SS "enable [plugins...]"
Enable one or more installed plugins. Enabled plugins are loaded by ManyBot on startup.
.SS "disable [plugins...]"
Disable one or more installed plugins. Disabled plugins remain installed but are not loaded.
.SS "sync"
Synchronize the local registry with remote repositories.
.PP
Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-no\-add
Do not add new plugins discovered in the remote registry
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-update
Install or update plugins from the remote registry
.RE
.SS "update"
Update all plugins from remote (equivalent to
.BR "sync --update" ).
.SS "validate [path]"
Validate a plugin's
.B manyplug.json
configuration file. Aliased as
.BR val .
.PP
If no path is specified, validates the current directory.
.SH "PLUGIN STRUCTURE"
A valid plugin follows this directory structure:
.PP
.RS
.nf
my-plugin/
├── manyplug.json    # Plugin metadata (required)
├── index.js         # Entry point (or as specified in main)
├── locale/          # Translations (recommended)
│   ├── pt.json
│   ├── en.json
│   └── es.json
└── README.md        # Documentation
.fi
.RE
.SH "MANYPLUG.JSON"
The
.B manyplug.json
file defines plugin metadata. Required fields:
.PP
.RS
.TP
.B name
Plugin name (lowercase letters, numbers, hyphens; 2-50 characters)
.TP
.B version
Semantic version (e.g., "1.0.0")
.TP
.B category
One of: games, media, utility, service, admin, fun
.RE
.PP
Optional fields:
.PP
.RS
.TP
.B service
Set to true for background service plugins
.TP
.B description
Plugin description
.TP
.B author
Author name
.TP
.B license
License identifier (e.g., "MIT")
.TP
.B main
Entry point file (default: "index.js")
.TP
.B dependencies
npm dependencies object
.TP
.B externalDependencies
System command dependencies object
.RE
.SH "SERVICE PLUGINS"
Service plugins (marked with
.B "service: true"
) run continuously in the background rather than responding to commands.
They are useful for tasks like tracking user activity, scheduled jobs, or maintaining state.
.SH "EXTERNAL DEPENDENCIES"
Plugins can declare system-level dependencies in
.BR manyplug.json :
.PP
.RS
.nf
"externalDependencies": {
  "ffmpeg": "ffmpeg",
  "python3": {
    "command": "python3",
    "optional": true
  }
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.B validate
command checks if these commands exist in the system PATH.
.SH "REGISTRY"
ManyPlug maintains a local
.B registry.json
file tracking installed plugins, their versions, categories, and whether they are local or remote.
.PP
The remote registry is fetched from configured mirrors (see
.BR config.json ).
.SH "PLUGIN ENTRY POINT"
A plugin's entry file exports an async function receiving
.B msg
and
.B api
objects:
.PP
.RS
.nf
export default async function ({ msg, api }) {
  if (!msg.is(CMD_PREFIX + "command")) return;
  await msg.reply("Hello!");
}
.fi
.RE
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I ./registry.json
Local plugin registry tracking installed plugins
.TP
.I ./config.json
ManyPlug configuration with mirror URLs
.TP
.I ./manyplug.json
Plugin manifest (in plugin directories)
.TP
.I ./manybot.conf
ManyBot plugin configuration (managed by enable/disable)
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Create a new utility plugin:
.PP
.RS
.B manyplug init my-plugin --category utility
.RE
.PP
Install plugins from the registry:
.PP
.RS
.B manyplug install fun games
.RE
.PP
Install from a local path:
.PP
.RS
.B manyplug install --local ./my-custom-plugin
.RE
.PP
Install without confirmation:
.PP
.RS
.B manyplug install plugin-name --yes
.RE
.PP
List all plugins including disabled:
.PP
.RS
.B manyplug list --all
.RE
.PP
Enable and disable plugins:
.PP
.RS
.B manyplug enable plugin-a plugin-b
.br
.B manyplug disable plugin-a
.RE
.PP
Sync with remote and update all plugins:
.PP
.RS
.B manyplug sync --update
.RE
.PP
Remove a plugin and its dependencies:
.PP
.RS
.B manyplug remove plugin-name --remove-deps
.RE
.PP
Validate a plugin configuration:
.PP
.RS
.B manyplug validate ./my-plugin
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR manybot (1)
.SH "AUTHORS"
Written by freakk.dev.
.br
Source available at: https://codeberg.com/synt-xerror/manybot
